#summary Detailed install guide for ubuntu/debian distributions

*1. Initial Setup*

Alright, we’re ready to start installing. Most of the dependencies are available with macports, but some we’ll have to build from source. The first thing we need for thrudb is thrift, which itself has a few dependencies.

{{{
$sudo port install libevent boost
}}


----
*2. Thrift*

Now let’s grab thrift from SVN:

{{{
$ svn co http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/incubator/thrift/trunk thrift
$ cd thrift
}}}


{{{
$ cd thrift
$ ./bootstrap.sh
$ ./configure
$ make
$ sudo make install
}}}

Again, this will take a few minutes.

----
*3. Thrift Client Libraries*

Now that thrift is installed, we need to install the client libraries for whichever language(s) that we’re planning on using. The C++ and Python libraries are installed by default, but this guide will focus on Java, Ruby, Perl as examples. If you get other client libraries working, leave a comment with the steps taken and I’ll amend this post.

To build the Java client libraries:

{{{
$ cd lib/java
$ sudo ant install
$ cd ../..
}}}

This will install the thrift JAR file to /usr/local/lib/libthrift.jar. For the Perl client libraries, we have another dependency to install:

{{{
$ sudo perl -MCPAN -e "install Bit::Vector"
}}}

Enter yes at the first prompt, then accept the defaults for the dozen or so prompts that follow. Now we can build and install:

{{{
$ cd lib/perl
$ perl Makefile.PL
$ make
$ sudo make install
$ cd ../..
}}}

For the '''Ruby client libraries''':
{{{
$ cd lib/rb/
$ sudo ruby setup.rb config
$ sudo ruby setup.rb install
}}}

For the PHP5 client libraries:
{{{
$ cd lib/php
$ sudo mkdir -p /usr/lib/php5/thrift
$ sudo cp -pvr src/* /usr/lib/php5/thrift/
}}}

Please take a look at '''lib/csharp|st|erl>/README''' if you want to install other client libraries. Alright, done with thrift.

----
*4. Thrudb Dependencies*

Let’s go back to our build dir, and start on the other dependencies for thrudb:

{{{
$ cd ..
$ sudo apt-get -y install memcached libexpat1-dev libssl-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev liblog4cxx9-dev uuid-dev libboost-filesystem-dev libmysql++-dev libdb4.5++-dev
}}}

These will take a few minutes each. Accept all defaults when prompted.

There are 3 dependencies that we’ll install from source: libmemcached, Spread, and CLucene (since, as of this writing, apt-get has Spread 3.x and we need Spread 4.x; the same with CLucene, apt-get has 0.19.x and we need the latest from svn).

*libmemcached*

Now we’ll get, build, and install libmemcached:

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install curl
$ curl http://download.tangent.org/libmemcached-0.17.tar.gz | tar xzf -
$ cd libmemcached-0.17
$ ./configure
$ make
$ sudo make install
$ cd ..
}}}

*Spread*

Spread requires filling in a form to download it, which will be tricky from the command line, but curl to the rescue (replace the values of name, company, and email in the first command with your own information):

{{{
$ curl -L -d FILE=spread-src-4.0.0.tar.gz -d name="Thrudb User" -d company="Thrudb User" -d email="unknown@thrudb.org" -d Stage=Download http://www.spread.org/download/spread-src-4.0.0.tar.gz | tar xzf -
$ cd spread-src-4.0.0
$ ./configure
$ make
$ sudo make install
$ cd ..
}}}

*CLucene*

In order to build CLucene, we need libltdl3-dev:

{{{
$ sudo apt-get install libltdl3-dev
}}}

Now we'll checkout, build, and install the latest version of CLucene:

{{{
$ svn co https://clucene.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/clucene/trunk clucene
$ cd clucene
$ ./autogen.sh
$ ./configure
$ make
$ sudo make install
}}}

Somehow clucene-config.h, which is expected to be in /usr/local/include/CLucene/, but for some reason is actually in /usr/local/lib/CLucene/. To fix this, we just copy the file:

{{{
$ sudo cp /usr/local/lib/CLucene/clucene-config.h /usr/local/include/CLucene/
}}}

-----
*5. Install Thrudb*

Well, if you’ve made it this far, congratulate yourself. We’re now ready to actually install thrudb! First we’ll get it from SVN:

{{{
$ svn co http://thrudb.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ thrudb
$ cd thrudb
}}}

To build and install everything:

{{{
$ sudo make
}}}

You can build specific portions, thrucommon is required, everything after is if you want it:

{{{
$ cd thrucommon
$ ./bootstrap.sh
$ ./configure
$ make all
$ sudo make install
}}}

Repeat for each of the pieces you want, i.e. thrudoc, thrudex, thruqueue, throxy (throxy is not ready yet though).  Some of them may require 'sudo ./bootstrap.sh' if you get some permission errors.

----
*6. Thrudb Client Libraries and Tutorials*

And finally, we just need to build the thrudb client libraries (similar to what we did for thrift), and tutorials if we want to test it out.

To build the client libraries, you just need to run /usr/local/bin/thrift on Thrudoc.thrift and Thrucene.thrift and specify which language to generate. However, there’s a handy Makefile in the tutorial directory that will take care of this for us:

{{{
$ cd tutorial
$ make
}}}

Start thrudoc and thrucene with the handy control script:

{{{
$ ./thrudbctl start
}}}

At last! 

All the tutorials should work out of the box. Let’s run the Python tutorial:

{{{
$ cd py
$ python BookmarkExample.py
}}}

You should see something like:

{{{
*Indexed file in: 0.20 seconds*

Searching for: tags:(+css +examples)
Found 3 bookmarks
1       title:  Dynamic Drive CSS Library- Practical CSS codes and examples
        url:    (http://www.dynamicdrive.com/style/)
        tags:   (css examples)
2       title:  Dynamic Drive DHTML Scripts -DD Tab Menu (5 styles)
        url:    (http://www.dynamicdrive.com/dynamicindex1/ddtabmenu.htm)
        tags:   (cool css examples menu)
3       title:  Uni-Form
        url:    (http://dnevnikeklektika.com/uni-form/)
        tags:   (examples CSS)
Took: 0.00 seconds

Searching for: title:(linux)
Found 4 bookmarks
1       title:  Debian GNU/Linux System Administration Resources
        url:    (http://www.debian-administration.org/)
        tags:   (linux administration tips)
2       title:  Linux Scalability
        url:    (http://www.cs.wisc.edu/condor/condorg/linux_scalability.html)
        tags:   (linux sysadmin ulimit)
3       title:  Set Up Postfix For Relaying Emails Through Another Mailserver | HowtoForge - Linux Howtos and Tutorials
        url:    (http://www.howtoforge.com/postfix_relaying_through_another_mailserver)
        tags:   (email linux server)
4       title:  ZFS on FUSE/Linux
        url:    (http://zfs-on-fuse.blogspot.com/)
        tags:   (zfs linux fuse)
Took: 0.00 seconds

*Index cleared in: 0.06 seconds*
}}}

The Perl tutorial needs one more dependency:

{{{
$ sudo perl -MCPAN -e "install Class::Accessor"
}}}

Again, accept the default when prompted. Then run with:

{{{
$ cd perl
$ perl BookmarkExample.pl
}}}

You should see output similar to the Python example.


----
*7. Next Steps*

Congratulations! You now have thrudoc and thrucene running on your own Ubuntu box. From here, you can poke around in the tutorial directory and have a look at the *.conf files. You may also want to join [http://groups.google.com/group/thrudb discussion list].