#summary Running Thrudb On Amazon EC2
#labels Featured

*1. AMI information*

If you are on Amazon EC2, you may want to check out these Thrudb AMIs (the OS is Ubuntu 7.10):

+ i386: ami-c71efbae

+ x86_64: ami-dc1efbb5

Note: guys at aideRSS had released some [http://blog.aiderss.com/2007/12/18/announcing-thrudb-ec2-public-amis/ Thrudb AMIs] but they used the old Thrudb source though. My AMIs use the latest version of Thrudb.

*2. Start your instance*

Please consult [http://developer.amazonwebservices.com/connect/entry.jspa?externalID=992&categoryID=87 Amazon EC2 documentation] for how to start your instance. BTW, I highly recommend [http://s3.amazonaws.com/ec2-downloads/ec2ui.xpi EC2 Firefox UI] which is very easy to use.

*3. Start Thrudb*

Once you login into your EC2 instance, run these commands to start thrudoc and thrudex:

{{{
# cd /root/buildthrudb/thrudb/tutorial
# make start
}}}

Just ignore any output or warning. Use nestat to verify if thrudoc and thrudex has been started:

{{{
# netstat -npaut
}}}

You should see lt-thrudoc and lt-thrudex are listening on 0.0.0.0:11291 and 0.0.0.0:11299 respectively.

*4. Run tutorials*

All the tutorials should work out of the box. Let’s run the Python tutorial:

{{{
# cd py/
# python BookmarkExample.py
}}}

You should see something like: 
{{{
*Indexed file in: 0.20 seconds*

Searching for: tags:(+css +examples)
Found 3 bookmarks
1       title:  Dynamic Drive CSS Library- Practical CSS codes and examples
        url:    (http://www.dynamicdrive.com/style/)
        tags:   (css examples)
2       title:  Dynamic Drive DHTML Scripts -DD Tab Menu (5 styles)
        url:    (http://www.dynamicdrive.com/dynamicindex1/ddtabmenu.htm)
        tags:   (cool css examples menu)
3       title:  Uni-Form
        url:    (http://dnevnikeklektika.com/uni-form/)
        tags:   (examples CSS)
Took: 0.00 seconds

Searching for: title:(linux)
Found 4 bookmarks
1       title:  Debian GNU/Linux System Administration Resources
        url:    (http://www.debian-administration.org/)
        tags:   (linux administration tips)
2       title:  Linux Scalability
        url:    (http://www.cs.wisc.edu/condor/condorg/linux_scalability.html)
        tags:   (linux sysadmin ulimit)
3       title:  Set Up Postfix For Relaying Emails Through Another Mailserver | HowtoForge - Linux Howtos and Tutorials
        url:    (http://www.howtoforge.com/postfix_relaying_through_another_mailserver)
        tags:   (email linux server)
4       title:  ZFS on FUSE/Linux
        url:    (http://zfs-on-fuse.blogspot.com/)
        tags:   (zfs linux fuse)
Took: 0.00 seconds

*Index cleared in: 0.06 seconds*
}}}

*5. Update Thrift/Thrudb*

Thrift and Thrudb is in very active development so you may want to update their sources to run the latest versions. To update Thrift, you run these commands:

{{{
# cd /root/buildthrudb/thrift/
# svn update
# ./bootstrap.sh
# ./configure
# make
# make install
}}}

And you update Thrudb with these commands:

{{{
# cd /root/buildthrudb/thrudb/
# svn update
# make
}}}

*6. Next steps*

Congratulations! You now have thrudoc and thrudex running on your own EC2 instance. From here, you can poke around in the tutorial directory and have a look at the *.conf files. You may also want to join [http://groups.google.com/group/thrudb discussion list].

Remember to terminate your instance if you're done playing with Thrudb.